Mike is working. This is July 30. Right. Seated in
the beautifully decorated and awfully neat
living room of Howard Perry's. Going to chat about
his days at A&M. Test your mic now. All right. Can
you hear what I'm saying?
I do. I always, when I listen to my own voice, I
always think it sounds terrible. Tell, for the
person that might read or listen to, read the
transcription or hear the tape, begin by giving us
a brief summary of your experience before you
first came to A&M as a student. Well, I actually was
born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. And I always tell
everybody, as soon as I could walk, I came to Texas.
That's not quite true. But I came to Texas when I was
about six years old, I guess. It was in 1928 or 29.
I'm not sure of the exact year. Then I moved into a
little town called Spearman in the panhandle of
Texas. My father was... And he was the manager of
the Ford place there. And he also, on the side, did
some repair work on refrigeration, which a lot of
people had some refrigerators, but not a whole
lot. And I went through grade school and high
school there. Well, my father died.
I spent about a year out of Spearman, and I went to
school in St. Louis, Missouri, in one of their
schools, and then came back to Spearman, because
Mother then got some work back there. This was
during the hard times. I went on to high school, and
we— Well, you lived in Cuba for a year. That was
during that period of time, too. Anyway, I
came back, as I said, and went to school, high
school and all, and graduated from high school.
Spearman was a very small school. I think there
were sixty-eight in a graduating class, if that
many. But I decided I wanted to go to Oklahoma A&M.
And so I went over there one summer because we
didn't have solid geometry and chemistry in
Spearman, and I wanted to take that solid geometry
and chemistry in a summer session, which I thought
would be a little better. But I came home from
there, and... I got ready to go back to Oklahoma
A&M, but I'd been talking to a couple of my friends,
one that was going to be a sophomore down here at
A&M, and the other very close friend of mine was
coming down here as a freshman. So we got in the car
that morning to go to Oklahoma A&M, and I told my
mother, I said, you know, I think I'd rather go to
Texas A&M. Well, she just did a right turn, and we
came down here. unannounced.
And they went to the registrar's office, which was
down in the Koch building, and I arranged to get my
transcripts in there, but they let me come in.
Wait, you said Koch building. Koch building
was... Not Koch building, the administration
building. Yeah, excuse me. The administration
building. Do you know what year that was? Yeah,
that was in 1940. 1940. Okay.
And I couldn't get a dormitory room, I find a
project house at the North Gate that I could live
in. And this, my mother left me standing on a corner
on a Friday before Monday when all the kids came
back. This is in the fall. September. Do you
remember what, describe what gear, clothing and
everything, what all did you bring? Well, Of
course, I brought underwear and towels and stuff
like that and a little bit of civilian clothing. I
don't think I had a suit. Yeah, I guess I did have a
suit and a couple of shirts. But before Mother
left, she bought me what I needed. We had to buy a lot
of our uniforms in those days. They issued some,
but the rest we had to buy. And shoes and socks and
stuff like that. And she arranged for me to...
going to Penny's in Bryan, and I could sign a check
for her name by me there. That's the only place, if I
bought something I needed in the way of clothing.
And that was an unusual experience. I'll tell you,
I was so lonesome. And then when my room, the guy
from Spearman I was going to room with came in on
Sunday, And the other guys began to come in, too, at
the project house, and of course they divided, I
don't know, I'm sure people have told you about the
project house. We divided up the work and
everything and took the bills at the end of the
month and split that by however many. Now, what
bills were there? Well, they had the utility
bills, food bills, and I'm sure the bills for
paying this woman that ran and cooked the things,
because we did the dishes and all. She was a hard
worker. She wasn't anybody's aunt or
grandmother? No, no. She may have owned the house.
I don't know. No, but I've heard in some cases a
widow or an aunt or a grandmother might come and be
the chief cook, but that wasn't true. Not that I'm
aware of. Was the whole house from Spearman? No,
no. There's only two of us from Spearman. I don't
know. They were from all over, but I mean... Man,
the minute the sophomores get there, we began to
catch it.
My roommate and I kept one another in school
practically on a nightly basis. I'd want to go home
one night and he didn't want to go home. The next
night he'd want to go home and I didn't want to go
home. But once we got by Thanksgiving, that was all
over. What was it in those first weeks that caused
you to be homesick? Well, you know, I've been away
from home so far, and I was an only child. That's
another thing. And the hazing was in the project
house. I don't know. It was bad in the core, too, but
it was just about as bad in the project house. And,
of course, we caught it when we got on the campus,
too. What... Give some examples of the hazing you
endured. Well, they beat our fanny regularly. And
I
tell you, it was, and I was a skinny kid, and it
really hurt. But then, and they had a ritual that
when you were on the campus, walking across the
campus, you saw one of your upperclassmen, you had
to speak to him and call him by name. Now, later on,
when I got into the Corps, that turned out pretty
good because if he was with a young lady, he was
obligated to introduce us to the young lady, see?
But they hadn't, it was just completely changed.
And the school, My courses were, and I remember I
came from a very, very small high school, and I
wanted to be an engineer, which was a mistake.
Freshman registration was in Sbisa? No. We got our
registration cards out in front of the old
assembly building, and we picked those up, and we
visited all of the departments that we were going
to take a course in. and tried to work our schedule
out. And then we, of course, were assigned to a unit
in the Corps. We had to get that in. And that was all
done by somebody there in the administration. We
didn't know who the heck it was. So that you were in a
Corps unit that first semester, but you lived in
the project house. Did anybody treat you
differently because of that arrangement? Well,
we were day ducks, even though we lived like that.
When we came on the campus, we had to wear a campaign
hat, and we stood out like a sore thumb because the
kids that lived on the campus, they didn't wear
headgear on the campus unless they were going to
military science. How would they pick on you then
for it? Well, you know, they'd ask us questions and
then they'd ask us when we didn't, you know, they'd
stop, you better dang sure introduce yourself to
them. And then you had to ask them where they were
from and what their major was and supposed to
remember that, you know. And they didn't haze us
physically on the campus. Mm-hmm. from being in a
project house. As you look back on it now, who were
some important people for you in that first
semester? Of course, my roommate. Friends or
faculty? I really, I had Dutch Holm. and for
Algebra I. And I
don't remember. I think Paul Mason may, I'm not
sure, may have been a mechanical drawing. And I
didn't take chemistry, the first year of
chemistry.
I don't remember. Ralph Steen was a Texas history
teacher. We didn't have a textbook because he was
just written one, you know, and it hadn't been
published. And
my association mostly was with there, and a woman
that ran this, bless her heart, I can't remember
her name, the project house, You know, it was kind
of the one that kept us going. Did you live there all
year? No, I left there, and I left at the end of the
fall semester because I ran out of money. The house
ran out of money? No, I did. Oh, you did. Oh, so it
cost, do you move to the Corps then? No, no, I left
A&M and went to work. Do you remember what that
first semester cost in round numbers? Well, we
paid them articulation fee of $50. Okay. And I
think we had a laundry fee of not very much, but they
do your clothes once a week with so many pieces. And
my room and board, the lowest I remember was about
$15 a month. The highest was about $25. My memory
may be a little vague on that. And... Anyway, then I
left the first semester, and then I came back. I
still had to do my fifth year, the second half of it.
I came in September. Of 41. Right.
That was something. So you were away for nine
months. How much money did you bring with you that
second fall? Enough to register and pay my, my, uh,
my articulation fee and, and mother took care of
the, they call it subsistence, for the room and
board. Right, right. You had gone home and worked?
Yeah, I worked in Spearman and I worked with my aunt
in, in Alabama. How did you get back that second
year? Did somebody drive you, or did you
hitchhike? I don't know that I, I think mother
brought me and left me, because she was gone away,
which we moved out of Spearman and went on to
Amarillo, I mean to Alabama with my aunt. Because
on the motor transportation, using your thumb.
All right, that second year, you're in what
outfit? B-field artillery. And where were they?
In the New Dorm area? No, they were over in the old
Darm area. They called it, the new Darm area was
being built. Oh, okay.
I want to say I was in, I can't remember whether it
was 6th or 8th. I think it was 6th.
I think it was Darm 6th. Tell me about your outfit.
Oh, B-field and We had a bunch of good guys, and my
classmates, there's some of them are dead now.
Dick Hill, we called him Senator Hill, and Forrest
Sharp, he got killed during the war, and McIntyre,
Don McIntyre, whose daddy was a colonel down here
at one time, he got killed during the war, and Earl
C. from Waxahachie, and Harold Abona, from U
Valley, and Richard Phillips from Dallas. Now,
the class of 1940 then wasn't very close with the
class of 41, or 42,
because they gave us a hard time. Even sophomores,
they aged us pretty good at 42, did. But they were
the, that was then, we, We had, you know, the usual
pranks we'd pull. Such as? Describe them. Well, a
drowned out is some of them, and they called it, I
told Dolores this I think several times, a float
out, which is you just gave somebody a hard time. It
didn't have to be true or anything else. But you had
to be detailed to do that. And the only way you could
do it is if you could float out a sophomore, for
example, if a junior or senior told you. And you
could float out a junior if a senior told you. Now,
this worked even, sophomores sometimes are
caught part of this. But I remember there was a guy,
Pat Murphy, And he had a date one of the weekends.
This was before, I think, before I met Dolores.
Anyway, she was eating in the dining hall, and this
freshman sitting across from him just kept
staring at this woman. It was obvious that he was
staring at her. And finally he turned to Murphy and
he said, Mr. Murphy, I don't think your girl has a
bad complexion. Boy. Everybody knew what
happened, of course. He began to apologize to the
girl, and finally the guy that detailed it came up
and said that. All right, now, a float-out, was
that a drown-out with more water? Well, most of the
time it really was. They put it in the room. Okay.
But we didn't do that. We drowned out more than we
floated out. What other pranks did y'all try?
Well, it was always...
That flowed out and things like that. I don't
remember too many other pranks. Did any of your
friends put an animal in somebody else's room or
move their car up in the hallway? No. They only
needed cars to speak up. Do you remember any
pranks, whether they involved you or not, do you
remember any pranks that in fact were
destructive?
No.
So a drown-out... Well, if you got too much in it, it
would run down to the room, through the holes
around the radiator, and we were very careful
about that, not to get too much. All right, now, so
if you and your buddies drowned somebody out, then
they would have to take their mattress and put it
out in the sun. That's right. We did, yeah. Or did
the freshmen get to do that for them? Well, if they
were up there, freshmen probably did it. And they
used to beat their mattresses regularly to soften
them up and air them out. Then, as the Lord said, I
had a blind date and went to Brenham on the 4th of
July and met her. And I don't remember, was I a
junior when I met you?
Yeah. I think I was a junior then. Who helped
arrange this? Well, I think it was Willie
Zappalack that got me there. Willie Zappalack,
Charlie Moccamel. And Charlie Moccamel. That was
another one in my outfit from Brenham I didn't
mention. He and I, we're still very close friends.
I'm with Charlie Moccamel, Harold Abona, and Dick
Phillips. And where did you go on that first date?
Well, there was a very famous spot over there in
Brenham, and when I met her, I went up to get her at
the door. We got to the car, and she announced,
we're going to the wagon wheel.
What's the wagon wheel? It was a place all of the
high school and college, not a lot of college kids
would come to you, particularly on Saturday
night, because it was a big place. They served
beer, and they had a jukebox, and we danced. And we
had a good time there. When you talk about
destructive, there was one thing that happened
there one night that had no relation to us, but this
one fellow I called Forrest Sharp, we called him
Feedy. He was the most likable guy in the world, but
you'd get a few beers in him, he got belligerent as
hell. And there was the Navy then came into A&M. And
some of those sailors were over there, and he
decided, he went over and mouthed off at them, and
they decided they were going to beat him up. And he
ran out and went through the window to get away from
them, and the police caught him. He caused a riot.
Anyway, that's another story, I guess. All right,
and for you and your buddies, was it unusual for you
all to drink beer on a date or a night out? Yeah,
because we didn't have too much money. I never had a
beer until I
tasted beer up in the Pan Pan. Spearman was dry as
the Sahara Desert. Somebody, a friend of ours, had
some beer in there, and I know one of the boys, and I
tasted it. I didn't like it. But I came down here and
then part of the rituals, I think this was before I
left, they took us out to Nezzy's and got us beer.
Was it Nezzy's? I know you weren't there, but there
were two places out there that we used to go to. You
only went to one, I think. Well, there was
Franklin's, and then, of course, the famous
place, what was the name of the place? Mr. Ed?
Navels, Navels. Huh? Was it Navels? No, the one out
at College Station that had sold out. Oh, Uncle
Ed's. Uncle Ed's. Yeah. That was the famous,
that's where the kids hung out. Hardlickers. But
they didn't have dancehall. They didn't have much
beer because they didn't have much money. They
didn't have that's all. So drunkenness was seldom
a problem in the dorm? Oh yeah, very, very, very
seldom. In the dorms,
we sometimes hid with some of the guys that had
their, you know, had a bottle of maybe a pipe or
something like that. They tried to hide that. And
we had some very ingenious ways. And when I became a
tack officer, it paid off. You'd pull a medicine
cabinet out of the wall and take a wire or string and
wrap it around the bottle top, the neck of the
bottle, drop it down on the wall and then fasten it
there and then put the medicine cabinet back.
Nobody would find it. And under the shoe rack,
they'd try that. But they didn't have... there
wasn't drunkenness. When they came in at night, if
they were a little bit rowdy, the senior that was on
duty, boy, got them quiet and in their sacks.
So that partly the reason they didn't drink or
party more was they didn't have the money. So the
girls didn't want you to drink. They didn't mind if
you had a beer, but she and most of her friends, if
you got more than two, that was too much. And, of
course, when we came to the dances here on the
campus, we didn't have a drink then. And
intermissions, we went down to the two drugstores
down at the North Gate. Yeah, Kennedy's and
Lipscomb's, wasn't it? And had a Coke. And had a
Coke. Because they didn't serve anything but
punch at that time. You all started going fairly
steady while you were students. Yeah. Describe
the routine for a young man and his date at one of the
big A&M dances.
Well, there was not much you can add to it. There
were a number of major dances. They had what they
call a regimental ball, and these were always on a
Friday night. And then Saturday night was a core
dance that was open to anybody in the core. And then
you had your class dances, and then after them they
had a core dance. And so these were big affairs. And
the girls all came dressed in evening dresses. And
when you got your gal inside, now the only people
that could wear a suit were seniors. Everybody
else had to wear a uniform. And the seniors wore a
uniform a lot of times just so they liked to show off
their boots, particularly when they were new. But
when we would come in, I'd tell Dolores, before we
ever got into the, the dancers were all held in the
main floor of Sabisa, and there were chairs all
around the wall. That was the only place to sit.
They didn't have tables in there. I'd tell her, I'd
say, now at intermission, I want to meet you here or
someplace we made off at intermission. Because
I'd start dancing with her, and when I'd get too
far, they had a big stag line down the center, and
boy, I was, be tagged, and the protocol was that I
couldn't tag the guy back. I had to wait around
until somebody else tagged him, and then I could
tag in. So it was wonderful times, and they had good
bands.
Like Jan Garber, big name bands. Tommy Dorsey.
There were hardly any places for them to get a room
in a motel or hotel for the day. And, of course, I
doubt whether my parents would have even let me
come for that. But they would vacate a dormitory.
And I think it cost the fellas 50 cents a night. And
for the girls, it was just wonderful. There was a
house mother there. And if they got you in too late,
they had to meet a kangaroo court. They did. When
you would go to Brenham to pick up this young lady,
And did you have a car by then? No, she came over on
the bus last time I rode with one of her friends. No,
I didn't have a car. All right, what time did the
dances and the social events end in the evening? We
have an intermission, and usually they ended, I
think, around 1 o'clock, wasn't it? And the girls
had to be in the dormitory room 30 minutes after the
dance closed. Okay. I can remember that we went to
midnight yell practice on Friday night, and we
went down there in our uniforms and the girls in
their evening dresses for midnight, and even
bonfire. They had a dance before bonfire, and I
remember going to bonfire that way. Do you
remember much at the dances? Do you remember any
rowdiness? Anybody getting drunk, fights at the
dances? No, I don't. Do you, honey? I don't
remember anybody getting out of line. There's a
picture in one of the annuals. Everybody was very
modest, but this one girl was in. She was quite well
endowed, and she had a midriff. Evening Down. What
was that guy's name? It's from Beaumont. There was
a bunch of them came to school here. Oh, the... He
was the general and one of them became a general.
Oh, for... It's a Lebanese name. So-and-so
brothers. Yeah. Anyway... Kokinos. Kokinos.
C-O-K-I-N-O-S. Kokinos. There's a picture in
there. annual of him on his knees in Sebesa looking
up at this gal in that dress, and it wasn't his date.
But anyway, I don't remember of any round that. For
one thing, there were a number of faculty members
that would go. Now this was officially a dry county
for whiskey. Yes. Did you know of a, was there a
well-known bootlegger? No, there was what we
called Whiskey Bridge. And I don't know, the only
way you could get any hard liquor, which was dang
seldom, you could go down to Whiskey Bridge and
that guy ran that.
Well, that was, I think, Briscoe owned that liquor
store there. Yeah. Was there any, did the students
know of any red light district? In Bryan and Brown?
In Bryan and Brazos County? I've never heard of
any. No, we didn't. The only red light district
that I, two of them that I'd heard about, one was the
Chicken Ranch in LaGrange. Did, as far as you know,
did the Chicken Ranch exist in your day? I think it
did, because they talked about it, some of them
did. And there was one over in Brenham that
sometimes the kids would talk about. I don't know
about it. Huh? I say I don't know about it. It was
Trixie's or I don't remember what the name of it
was. What did you and your friends know about what
today we would call drugs?
You know, if you were a guy or something, you were a
drug, you were a... Did you know? We had a name for
them. Not a drug addict, but...
Did you even know the word heroin or marijuana? Not
that I know of. I heard of marijuana, I think, but I
never knew anybody that ever had it. Did the
typical Aggie male smoke?
An awful lot of them did, yeah. I know I started
smoking a pipe because I thought that looked so
good.
I could never keep it going. But I didn't start
smoking then. And did any of your buddies chew?
Like in my day, I'm slightly younger than you but
not much, we thought chewing tobacco was country.
Yeah, I don't remember anybody chewing.